Cornie virus spreading turbulence across
the airline industry health officials
now telling high-risk travelers to stay
home industry trade groups are
predicting losses in excess of a hundred
billion dollars this year joining us
right now with facts for air travelers
and ways to stay healthy during this
outbreak the vice-chair of surgery at
Columbia University and the host of the
dr. Oz Show dr. Mehmet Oz is here great
to see you dr. oz thanks for being here
please so you must be really busy with
all of this take us through the facts
starting with air quality and seat
location in terms of the most important
things we need to know if you still need
to travel in the face of all of this
I'll give you those that bit me tiny bit
of a pep talk what can you do people
everyone says stay calm don't panic
that's not really about what our goal is
here our goal was to give you action
steps you can take right now to keep
yourself safe more importantly keep
people who are frail in the population
in optimal conditions so they don't get
ill if you build a firewall with this
virus we do also hear the actress that
first off travel if you're going to talk
about a plane please stay by the aisle
aisle rather than up by the aisle by the
window it's some it's further away from
all the crowds the the germs owners is
the roll in front of you and behind you
pick the air nozzle blast at your face
the air from outside the plane and
that's been purified within the plane is
99.9% pure so it's going to be the
safest air you're gonna be able to
breathe I just mentioned it's an
emblematic of what you could do you can
wash your hands for example and by the
way wash your hands for 20 seconds and
wash your fingers in particular don't
worry about your wrists they don't make
much of a difference don't shake hands
obviously as we did not shake hands
walking in here we did the elbow bump
and you need to because although it
historically should show that your hand
was free of a weapon and you're gonna
hurt somebody these days you're actually
carrying the weapon they can't see and
you're going to infect them and how
hygiene is also critical in the area
this surface in front of me
the reason is coronal virus worries is a
germ on this virus from the guest before
me could infect me in fact from a guest
on Friday could have infected me because
it so that will live on this desk for
how many hours we believe for up to nine
days Wow so it's really difficult to
predict who was there so you got to
clean it up I like to spray a bit the
solutions on and when as it dries it
kills off the germs is have been better
than the wipes
simple tactics like that are incredibly
effective there have been supplements
you could take that we believe might be
beneficial in shortening duration
because many people won't even know
they're sick when they get the virus
eighty percent of the symptoms are
people
get our symptoms a pretty mouth so
vitamin C vitamin D zinc elderberry
these are simple ideas beta glucan which
is for mushrooms you know what I've been
doing every day is taking the emergency
drink you know the past vitamins in this
disinfect your surface want the monkey
wipes is you don't have to let the
surface get wet if you just wipe like
this you're actually spreading germs so
you want to leave the surface moist
enough that as it dries up you actually
murdered off all the virus particles
that are in but it brings up mass
transit I mean commuters on buses and
trains I mean we don't know that those
surfaces have been cleaned no you gotta
get in the heisman arm length distance
from the people around you that's why
folks who are older and trail with
chronic illnesses they're the ones that
worry about they have to be thoughtful
about using mass transportation during
rush hour because you being puzzled and
bustle do you touching too many people I
agree holding those hand ones above your
head is a catastrophe so walking around
with Kleenex is in your hands to hold
that or just during the community wear
gloves then toss the gloves yeah but
what contaminates you is you and your
fingers touch that surface that's been
able to harbor virus for days and days
and days then you touch your face which
we do a thousand times or more a day on
average well then you're taking virus
inoculating yourself with it which is
why this is so contagious and give you
some numbers on this traditional flu and
this is what the only thing that's worse
in the me about this if I have the flu
the chance of me giving it to a person
but is meaningful right nine people get
infected for me during that week but if
I have corona virus it's forty five
people get infected that week it's so
much greater as contagiousness that if
you happen to have a weakness for the
virus it'll catch up to you without you
realizing it but most people it sounds
like don't have to worry it is the
elderly you know what does the average
person really need to panic I don't it
doesn't sound like it
I don't think again it's not even about
not panicking you you're not gonna die
from this virus
overwhelmingly you're safe however you
should use smart things to avoid you
passing the people who are frail well
that's what I've been thinking about
because my father is 83 years of age and
he lives in the south and I was going to
go visit him I don't have any way to
know if I have to I feel fine but I
could have it potentially living in New
York City the most populous city and
the nation so I can't visit him until I
could get tested testing is so far from
being done for the average person I
wouldn't bother but your dad should do
basic things two weeks supply of the key
things including over-the-counter
medications right that's what you really
need and prescription medications you
can communicate with using telephonic
sources but you going down to visit him
without knowing for sure that you don't
have the illness and it's again people
sometimes are so subtly infected they
don't have symptoms and you're putting
him at risk for no good reason
I'm gonna say this again if you all
would you agree she shouldn't miss it
her father
my dad's 87 and I was thinking the same
thing but I wasn't gonna not visit him
for this I would spend a couple weeks
until we really understand what's going
on with these with the but people are in
fact that in this country because it's
different than those infected Juan and
most of our data is coming from the
Chinese CDC if I give you mortality
numbers they're based only on people
living in walls so we know it's coming
at us we know that the numbers are about
to spike let's talk about being ready
for it and staying healthy ahead of it
because you have some tips and
suggestions to stay healthy as this
comes and one of them is getting a
humidifier the virus doesn't like
humidity and it doesn't like warmth so
if you have a room that is warmer than
the outside temperature and usually
humidifier you keep them the moisture in
for two reasons it pushes back the virus
but it keeps your mucous membranes
moist as well so there's us cracks
that's how the viruses get into us part
of the problem with air travel is it's
dry up there and so your mucus membranes
dry out that's the case that they can't
protect you from virus particles in the
air so a humidifier makes perfect sense
why not and you only got a monk more of
cold weather after that you can put it
away retire it which is what dr. Carson
said the other day when he came on the
show yesterday he said look in the
future when we're retrofitting new
buildings when we're talking about
cruise ships it's gonna be totally
different because you need the
ventilation that will take certain
particles out of the air these cruise
ships don't have that right now they
don't use that technology why would they
have been expected to do that the planes
do have technology like them
interestingly that's why the plane air
that's recirculated from the outside is
actually pretty clean but that's gonna
become the standard for buildings is
gonna be standard for ships it's gonna
become how we manage ourselves going
forward and I'm gonna point this out we
are the firewall the folks at this table
are gonna do fine if we get the virus
one of you may or
had the virus not have been known it
right there folks who are panicked about
about the stock market who are working
in the stock broker who may have already
been infected and yet they don't know
that so just ran through their bodies
and they didn't even know it yet 80% of
the symptoms of small but here if their
symptoms are fever it does not to be
high fatigue you're gonna feel like if
you got a dry cough and interestingly
about 40 percent of people have diarrhea
type symptoms nausea vomiting things
like that those are the symptoms you
want to watch out for but again they
could be you may thought you were
hungover you may think you have
allergies you may just think you had a
mild son or a head cold for the day and
that will stay in your body for how long
well we the virus seems to have an
incubation period of anywhere from a
week to two weeks that's part of the
problem because you could be contagious
and not realize that yeah but I would
after that I would definitely quarantine
myself for at least 10 days so so one
bit of good news here is that children
so far seem to be less affected than
adults which isn't the case with the
season of flu right I mean I don't know
if they're carriers they may very well
be carriers but kids under 9 or 10 are
not getting this
well almost for sure they're carriers
however there has not been a known death
of a child under age 10 I'll give you
the numbers real quick under 10 0 form
10 to 50 it's about up to a thousand
chance of dying which is twice the
seasonal fool not a big difference above
50 starts going up is one business case
to the Chinese CDC data one percent of
people in the 50s will die four percent
of people in their sixties you double it
every decade after that so eight percent
of 7yz 15 percent me 18 so but I let me
get that in the 80s and two people here
have my hair in the 80s as well with
chronic illnesses that that's the group
we want to worry about everyone else
just carry on we'll see on the dr. Oz
Show